[Music]
Saturday the 15th of September at 1600 I
set my course towards the island of Java
one hour sailing away from home you soon
[Music]
the past days I had been following the
weather reports they could predict a
force tan storm coming our way
rushing over the North Sea building
waves up to eight meters and crashed
into our coastline at his highest peak
on the next day Saturday at 1300 being
addicted to adrenaline at Adventures I
decided to take part in this ferocious
weather system the wind would come in
from Northwest so to stay on gamma put
me in a perfect position to slingshot
myself into the waves and ride them down
went all the way back to hell you soon
but first I had to struggle my way out
there the front of the storm had already
reached the coast serving me 35 knots of
Western the game straight and my bead
[Music]
now please step aboard and join the ride
of my life
[Music]
hope it doesn't close
to my surprise the wind suddenly picked
up to westerly gale force
do not kill it too much on my nose
passing the open ocean
I went into some Shoals before leaving
Shore to get the wind onto my beam
Letta is a fair and brutal open
coastline outside Harrison when strong
winds combined with shallow waters shows
grouse and vicious currents together
work in harmony huge dangerous waves
occur suddenly out of nowhere and can
make rust price of the bad time
damn
35 knots to win a pair was the haps
upset
six and a half wait another
i'ma go
stay there
to wait for the
the storm tomorrow but I think it's
catching up on me now it's a little bit
earlier than right the weather report
said let's just pile down here the rain
is just with me my ice I needed to have
my goggles on Jesus
Wow these waters has a bad reputation
that a violent history of shipwrecks
during the last centuries many sailors
and seafarers have been forced to take
their last breath air may they all rest
in peace
upon arrival the wind and waves calm
down as the island was giving me Li
guava is the perfect place to seek
shelter when the weather gets rough here
they have a hotel guest houses and a
store with all the supplies you'll ever
need to have a memorable stay
coming the Seaway by boat you can either
drop your anchor and the wealth
protected base called soon live organ or
you can tie up to the guest pontoon to
have a safe and good night of sleep
[Music]
considering what was coming my way
tomorrow I was going for the last choice
tonight
[Music]
good morning well it's not good morning
it's it's one o'clock 1,300 and I've
been having my cup of coffee and Lotus
healing over just from the wind outside
let's go out and see this is blowing
crazy 50 knots and the gusts outside the
ocean I've been having a work into the
other side of the island just to have a
look at the ocean it is insane
just just upside there yeah it's crazy
but I love it be anxious I wouldn't be
normal I guess something wrong with you
going out in this weather but excited
kids keeps me on my toes
yeah
it's keeping me ready for this for
summer I know I'm not gonna host the
mainsail because off to get it up in
this wind
and this little Harbor so I'm just gonna
go for the head set and it's gonna keep
me keep me up to speed I'm not worried
about that I did it yesterday so it's
going to be fine so the wind is
Northwest it's coming straight to here
yourselves it's going to be down with
I'm just I'm gonna type back in first a
little bit straight on my tail because
that's the worst condition so I'm gonna
have it a little bit on my beam all the
way down to Houston so yep
I can't wait to do this so come on board
join me again okay so John you don't
want to miss out on this one
[Music]
to check to see state and conditions
I took a hike to the north end of the
island
here you can get a good view of the
rugged yet beautiful curve our
lighthouse built in 1892 it has leadeth
thousands of Mariners safely towards the
coast from the North Sea for 127 years
in good weather this serves as a nice
turn point but I'm just out for day sale
cruising around for fun
[Music]
but today was a different animal
the weather station on the radar must on
the top of the island report adjusts up
to 55 knots and about 45 knots average
to understand the physical impact these
wind speeds have on both land and ocean
rather than just numbers a Royal Navy
officer named Francis before developed a
scale measure in justness it's based on
observations done during the different
wood species it's called the before
scale and is the most widely used
systems among sailors today having a
look at the scale we can notice that
today's situation of 45 to 55 knots puts
us on a force 10 or a store
the description on the impact of Shore
it's nothing less stuff I would modestly
say slightly disturbing
after a lot of considering and thinking
back in Firth
I got a grip of myself and decided it
was go time the wind picked up an action
as I left the duck
my adrenaline was rising every minute
the feeling of not knowing what I was
getting myself into was both frightening
and accelerating at the same time
I loved and hated the situation I put
myself in in my 27 years of sailing I
have learned one thing for sure
fear is only produced by the lack of
knowledge or not knowing to get
knowledge you will have to face your
fear
when you face your fear you get
knowledge and we can hear see and feel
what you fear
after this point the fear disappears
because you know what this is the best
textbook or video in the world can never
teach you this you just gotta go for it
or
[Music]
this is the most insane I've done it
over I think
but get this that's this nature power
just go to my engine I take the same
you just have to sear the pork oops and
it's fucking amazing Jesus Christ look
at this look at this whoa
yes I get five six meters
take that sailor all right
[Music]
after the first 15 to 20 minutes of
being tossed around still seeing that
the boat was just fine with it
my anxiety slowly disappearing
and I could start enjoying the moment
and have some fun
it was time to get the cameras rolling
36 knots relative so what's our speed
where I've been about 40 knots now
Divac fine soldier
yeah the waves are just the most
impressive sight I've ever seen this is
just outside my living room for Ferguson
just one hour sailing from where I have
my boat generated
jot down
suppose
we are
typing by itself era wind is just in my
face I have to read the course a little
bit
best robber coaster in the world
it's what happens feel alive
that's for sure fucking help
doesn't stop
soon the wind accelerated to reaching
over 50 months
the sea states rapidly but more violent
and the situation got more intense
I was also closing into the shallow
shores outside Edison
between
being washed away towards LAN surfing 12
knots
this was the point of no return
I was forced to set my course in between
scary's
the feeling of slowly loosing control
give a good of chill down my back
that was pretty scary
it's very stuff
I went way too close to
to learn by back here you can see the
sallow all the way here six meters and I
got too close and I almost got caught
terrible
I just just missed it lucky me oh so now
it's I'm soon inside camp sooner then I
get the way that bet the West will score
down
[Music]
some think I'm done all my life I think
this beats everything Jesus Christ
Wow
[Music]
the weather come down slowly as I
entered the sheltered waters of Kamsa
the sound leading into Houston
my body was still full of adrenaline
after unforgettable experience I'd put
myself true and it's at for many hours
later I could safely fell back the
little flicker for sale and start the
engine 5.2 just up sales just under Rick
mast itself so that's me
back home again just come
Caroline's son we'll see how that goes
in this wind looking forward to it
[Music]
so that's what's it all tied up back in
force safe in port one hell of a ride
would I do it again that was one hell of
a ride
out-of-body experience Wow so it's not
more much more to say that live your
life to the fullest I guess but be safe
dude them a safe way as safe as possible
and have fun okay see you in the next
video bye-bye
in my next video I will give you a full
tour of all the new equipment that has
been installed the past six months some
of it will happen offshore and some yes
of course windy conditions in some of it
at anchor on the beautiful island of
faina just outside helgesson the boat
has now been refitted with all the
necessary equipment for long-distance
solo sailing
and the reason for this will be revealed
through telling you my next year's
challenging sailing destination all I
can say is that pina coladas and scuba
diving with dolphins will not be offered
in these waters
until next time Eric
[Music]
remember to subscribe to follow my
progress check out my Facebook site and
support me on patreon to help my future
same class
[Music]
you